---
layout: post
title: What is a Good Life
subtitle: 
tags: [prose]
---
I tend to philosophize my life and everything around me more than necessary, but over time this had developed into a hobby-ish thinking game that I do when I am engaged in repetitive tasks. 

For example, recently I have been thinking a lot about what is a good life. The reason behind re-picking up this trite topic is that I started to live alone, and thus started to have my own everything, and can take my time to do housework in a systematic manner without worrying about intruding the common area. In such time, I think what makes a life good. 

The element that is still dominant in my theory is something to occupy one’s time with, and preferably something worthwhile. This to me has always been a primary measurement. A good life is a hard life, but not too hard to destry her. An easy life is not only boring, but also magnifies trivial difficulties and makes them unbearable. A good life is a real life, that is to say, the problems and tasks are real. A fake task is something created for the purpose of exercise, for example, using trust fund to practice investment. This is of course of some other function, but life should not consist of fake tasks only. Authentic problems push people outward to make interactions not only with people but also with the material world (or even the spiritual one). Authentic problems are a negative force to facilitate exploration, creativity and connection. It is what makes everything challenging and rewarding. 

In contrast, a bad life is one without responsibility. When she does not need to be responsible not only for others but also for herself, her life starts to develop over-sentimentality. This kind of life is not only bad but also pathetic, because it attracts pity from both the outside but also inside. One who attracts pity is miserable. This kind of life is depleted with meaning. A life with self-pity is the worst type of suffering in my opinion. Admittedly, even some good life attracts pity from outside, but this kind of pity is just a misunderstanding, and it has nothing to do with the quality of the life in question. 

A good life is also a life with tolerance and friendship. This is so banal that I feel a bit embarassing to even speak it out. But a good life has a healthy amount of indulgence from social connections. Though not too much to create her dysfunctional perception to social dynamics. 

A good life to me, is also a hygienic life. That factor is important to me personally, because I do not feel pleasure in an environment in which I do not find any structure. A chaotic environment is agnostic. A true agnostic doubts even the concepts of good and bad. That for sure does not bring about a good life. 

To be more concrete, a good life to me is one with a good career. That does not mean I value a life that creates material value, but a life with a true task and true social connections. Friendship is built on shared hobbies or experiences, but social connections are built on mutual tasks. A life without either one of them is not complete. And of course, one always needs an income to expand her means to have fun, but that is a byproduct of a career. 