---
layout: post
title: Disruptor and Disruptee
subtitle: 
tags: [music]
---
Like all forms of art, music can be purposeful. Due to its accessibility, music influences its listeners in subtler ways than others. Listening is a passive action, compared to reading and looking at other serious stuff. If you think about the verb “listen,” it doesn’t require huge effort from the listener, unless the sound being listened to is hard to differentiate from the environment. For this reason, the power rests at the player, who executes the action and assert an influence onto the people within the field of the audio wave. 

Admittedly, there is a difference between passive and active listening, but here I reduce them to the same kind due to the fact that passive listening is still enough for the completion of the experience, but passive reading or looking at artpieces usually cannot. 

When the player and listener is the same person, they force some effect on themselves with awareness. But when the two persons are different, a power emerges, which naturally falls onto the main agent: the initiator of the music. The audience still have their agency, which is to leave the music field. There are several pulling and pushing forces that drive the listener away, for example, when there isn’t any social obligation to stay and the music creates enough pain to the listeners’ poor ears. Here, this pain doesn’t mean discomfort, it can be something benign, like boredom, or the *lack* of a reason to stay. Some music has the property of inducing the actual pain, but it draws certain people closer with exactly that. When the agent responsible for evoking music takes the action, the music starts to choose its audience. Those who are not repelled at all by the music choose to stay, and relinquish their right to peace and quiet temporarily. From then on, the music executioner has all the power for infliction: they can choose to soothe the audience, amuse the audience, or disturb them, even torture them. The audience at this point is defenseless, voluntarily put themselves at someone else’s mercy. There is a social contract at work. 

There are some possibilities for the category of the music being played. Most commonly, it is the kind that is considered pleasant to the ears. This kind of music follows the tradition of some sort, most possibily the tradition of composing, instrument, ensemble, or space. In this circumstance, the music player choose to go easy with their patient. Very possibly, they would like to satisfy, please, or impress the audience, with a pre-evaluation of the audience’s expectations, and mould their performance to fit into that expectation. 

Less commonly, but inevitably, there is a disruptor. They seize the opportunity to turn the event into a revolutionary speech by introducing something that's considered a nuisance to the majority. This is a filtering process, and only those who are fine with being disrupted would sign the contract. When that contract takes effect, the agent holds the power of propagating an idea. That is a music idea, but with delicate design, it becomes semiotic - it conveys semantics. The meaning in the sound is clear, but nobody is able to define the meaning on paper. Eventually, it is not linguistic, so it’s meaning cannot be set in stone. That is the sliminess of music, it avoids conviction by swerving into a non-linguistic branch, albeit conveying the same idea. 

When disruptive music is played in a concert hall, its influence is much limited. The audience is often reluctant to withhold their judgement completely, and that defense mechanism creates a tension between both parties. But when the music is played in a less confined circumstance, for example, when it is played as background music for a main activity, it has the possibility to shape the audience in a covert manner. 

That is probably why personalities or even beliefs have a correlation with music preference. I have no idea which one comes first, but I think people are influenced by certain type of music because when the music starts, they choose not to leave. Music cannot travel geographical distance. Even if the audience is obliged to be present, if they do not suspend their defense, music cannot travel into their heart, either. 

The disruptor and the disruptee are collaborators. They are partners in crime. A disruptee always wants a disruptor, because they lack them. They look for them with all their resources. A disruptee doesn’t want *any* disruptor, they want *the* disruptor who speaks out the oddity in their head with music. The language of music is implicit, and thus coded. A relationship with coded language is even stronger than otherwise. It creates a bond that endures. 
Horace in his *Ars Poetica* argues that literature has the ability to teach and delight, so I add on to that and say, some music has the ability to disrupt and affect. In both cases, the patient needs to voluntarily be taught, be delighted, be disrupted, and be affected. 