---
layout: post
title: The Poetics of Linear Algebra
subtitle: 
tags: [maths, aesthetics]
---
Linear algebra is a way of seeing numbers with higher dimentions of information. Consider a ruler: it reveals number in a linear manner, thus giving us a measurement that can be approached with one consistent and indisputable method, universally true in this world. Lines have this kind of very interesting property: the measurement is so easily available that even streching a thread would work. Linear algebra thus conviniently use lines as its measurement for more dimentions: adding a perpendicular line to the one at hand, and then another perpendicular one to the plane. Thus, we have a way of speaking about dots authoritatively in a space, the space that we live in and can thus touch, feel, and imagine. 

Higher dimentional vectors are based on the same principle, but they are not readily imaginable. It triggers unlimited ways of imagination, which is almost poetic. There are still some basic acknowledgements: we still use lines as measurement in those dimentions, but you just cannot picture it. I find poetic works which are not readily “imageric” insanely well-done. The imagery is narrated in the most detailed way possible, but you just cannot imagine it like a picture on your bedroom wall. The most boring works are those that describe a mediocre image to me so minutely that an uninteresting picture gets depicted on my mind and I feel pretty dumb for the mental effort. 

Linear algebra is the opposite. It triggers your desire to depict it in a dimention with some low-dimentional examples, and after three, pff, there’s nothing. You insist, it doesn’t budge. You ask again, beg, supplicate. Nothing. You give your closest guess, no one gives feedback. You constantly think about that mental image and gets a bit crazier each time it crosses your mind. They are just lines, you say to yourself. How am I not able to picture the most basic, most available and most mundane measurement that has been used by human beings since they were created? You just can’t. 

It tells you, now I am pure numbers. The most basic stuff that develops into mathematics. Like water, like fire, like your humors. And it changes the same way as lower-dimentional points. There is a transitional point where you suddenly realize you don’t need pictures. The world around you is just your habitual perspective, and it doesn’t have to internalize in everything you do. Why does literature need image? I never pictured anything in my head until my literature professor told me to. I had survived well and enjoyed literature for decades. 

Image is boring, language is fun. Linear Algebra, like mathematics, is a way to speak. It’s a volcabulary, a syntax, a semantics. It speaks about something accurately but leaves a blank plate on your visual sensor. The entertainment comes solely from the talk and the manipulation. Just like a brilliant novel or poem, it’s just word play. It doesn’t try to trigger any one of your sensor, or those fancy things like synesthesia. It gives you mental entertainment, but out of nowhere there comes a sensuality that is triggered by something indescribable. 