---
layout: post
title: Danger of Truism 
subtitle: Some reflection on parenting pitfalls
tags: [prose]
---
Everybody is haunted by some kind of childhood trauma, and so do I. I don’t want to elaborate that pain, but today I want to talk about it in an objective way. However, I definitely don't consider myself as traumatized. In fact, I gained a lot of resillience and analytical ability from the experience. 

My parents had two pedagogical ideas. They both wanted me to be well-educated. My dad wanted me to be educated as a good person, but my mom wanted me educated as a good woman. 

This already hints some lurking trauma. But there is still some irony from my mom’s side. She was not a trad wife at all. In fact, she was modern, or even avant garde in her age. She was a working mom, a white-collar, during some period she was the main bread-winner of the family. Before I was 18, she put more educational resource on me than one would on a boy, at a time when most people still low-key considered boys as priority. She raised me in a “rich” way, I would say. She mentioned that she wanted me to have seen everything before being released to the world, so that I wouldn’t be easily tempted. She was considered attractive, but she would talk about potential pitfalls of a beautiful woman. She taught me to focus on study before 18 because, what she said was, “it will only take you 1-hour’s effort to look gorgeous.” 

But she has her limits. Her ultimate educational goal was to send me into a prestigious college, and then I would meet a husband to do all the heavy-lifting bread-winning work. Thus we started to disagree more and more aggressively. But even before that, I had always been gloomy. Today I don’t want to defend her, neither do I want to attack her. But I want to point out how her plan doesn’t work. Because sometimes it seems there isn’t a huge problem in her method, which gives me a lot of question marks of why I felt great pain growing up. 

Firstly, her educational methodology is a master plan. It elaborates everything from the every beginning, disregards unexpected events in the future. I can comfortably say that her expectation of me had always been the same, whether it was in 1994 or 2025. She has an ideal in her head *into* which she wants me to grow. The ideal has multiple problems: even if there *could* be an ideal, it should be made by me, not her; and that she was convinced that the ideal is a permanantly valid one, withholding time. The ideal doesn’t take into account that I am a person with my own will. It doesn’t take into account that the society changes with time. It doesn’t take into account that something could be wrong with that plan, and should be adjusted along the way. That plan was so well thought-of that it designs all the minutiae, not only how I should live but also how I should smile. One of my muscular trauma stems from my mom’s design of how I should smile in front of a camera. I am still scopophobic. I seldomly take pictures, and if I do, I absolutely avoid smiling the way she taught me to. 

Secondly, her idea of a good woman is a false concept. Here I still don’t mean to attack her. As aforementioned, I still think she was already more modern than her peers, but she had her limitations. The pre-republic Chinese society is misogynistic to an absurd level. The consequence of that long misogyny is that smarter women find ways to survive and thrive in a female way. They try to use their “feminine charm” to cooperate or even dominate men. So for everything there are two methods, one is the male method, the other is the female one. My mom does know that modern society has enabled women to work their way with a universal method, but she also knows there is still some inertia due to thousands of years of tradition. She also knows that women are physically different from men and thus are less capable of certain labour. All of those are correct. Her mistake is overestimation and underestimation. She overestimates that inertia, and underestimates women’s ability due to some difference in physical strength. (In fact, in a modern labour setting, physical strength does not matter very much anymore.) Mostly, she overestimates women’s difficulty in career, and underestimates the risks in relying on one “perfect husband.”

The second point links to the first point in that when that plan is a master plan, she cannot adjust it when there is over/underestimation. 

Thirdly, she prioritizes being a woman to being a person. Her idea that women are different from men is correct, and I by no means believe women should “copy” men’s way if the previous female way is outdated. But in general, one should be a decent person first. A decent person has a set of universal standards. A lot of elements of the so-called “feminine charm” contradicts with the most basic principles of being a decent person and thus should be reconsidered. But some elements of it don’t. In fact, I think everybody has their own charm, both men and women. Charm is definitely not wrong, and it is something I value very much. It is what makes literature, art, and history possible. But charm is not supposed to be used as a instrument for an end. Don’t forget, there is another concept called “feminine wiles,” which even associate femininity with evil. This is a false connection, because there is wile in both masculinity and femininity. But instead of trying to dissociate the connection, my mom asks me to tap into it. This is something I really don’t agree with. 

Fourthly, she believes the only possible good life for a woman is to be taken care of. This is obviously absurd. There is some level of truth in it, in that everybody wants to be taken care of at some level by their loved ones. In turn, everybody wants to take care of their loved ones. This is a mutual process, and the act of “taking” care is what gives people strength and confidence, and most of all, agency. Agency is the source of happiness. A person passively being taken care of can probably look good due to all the care being pushed onto them, but cannot possibly be happy, because they’ve lost their agency. This is a horrific idea. I believe my mom doesn’t mean something this extreme, but this idea can be really dangerous.

Fifthly, her idea of an “enlightened” domestic woman is contradictory. The enlightened part is why she put so much resource on my education - she thinks although the best life for a woman is to be domestic, it is essential that the woman is good enough even for the outside world. She thinks a woman should be competitive enough but choose not to compete, because their husband can compete for them. This is really a very compromised feminist mindset. Of course, I don’t think every woman should work extremely hard and be an iron lady, and some women indeed choose to be domestic. Some even choose to be this kind of enlightened stay-at-home mom. But the keyword here is to “choose.” She thinks she could educate me to a level and then confine me to this one choice. Actually, being educated or “enlighted” means one knows one’s ability both career-wise and domestically, so that they can choose what is the best for them. My mom ignores the first half of the truth and only follows the second half piously. This led to a lot of unpleasant conversations. 

I think I should probably stop here. In general, now I understand more why it looks ok-ish but is actually not right. My mom employs quite a few truistic values but completely ignores the context, and thus disregards the other side of the coin. There is always certain level of truth in her ideas. That’s why if you think about her ideas, it doesn’t seem to be very wrong; but in effect, it gave me almost unbearable pain growing up. 

I do wish that parenting knowledge can evolve with time. I definitely don’t want to over-criticize my mom. Even though I don’t contact her anymore, I do think she has done her best in raising me. In fact, I am very grateful for a lot of her efforts in educating me pre-college, especially in teaching me foreign language when I was very little. I will resume contact when she needs my care. I hope writing this down could help me understand the situation better. 