---
layout: post
title: The Craft and Art of Mannual Labour
subtitle: 
tags: [body, philosophy]
---
I am obsessed with manual workers. Making something with mere hands is a magical concept. Mostly, when we make something happen, we say it in the context of abstract matters. For example, I overcome my difficulty of not knowing, and achieve the result of acquiring that particular knowledge. That make-do does not involve actual hands. Or I resolve the misunderstanding in a relationship. That action is inherently mental and verbal. 

But mannual work is using the body as a tool. Being born into this physical existance, we constantly try to create new ways of using it. We create new dances, sports, and we use our hands in different combinations of movements to make a change to another physical object. That kind of action has a memory encoded into the object that is altered due to our intentional manueuver. 

I am constantly amazed by how capable those hands are. The kind of manuel work I am most obsessed with involves the operation of machineries to make a difference to a material that otherwise overweighs human strength. That is such a delicate line of cooperation. At first, the craftspeople realise there is some work that is good, but the achievement is either impossible or would cause pain and suffer to workers. Then they start to develop tools with simple but clever mechanical design to maximise human strength or reduce material resistance. Afterwards there comes a crowd of engineers who use their uncanny reportoire of physical knowledge to either optimise the aforementioned functions or combine multiple demands into one tool so that workers with different problems can share one instrument. Preferably, those problems embedded in one tool is of the same type or similar ones, so that a worker would possibly bump into multiple of them with her life of work and can use the same one for multiple tasks. The inclusive design also activates the manufacture section, giving them a reason to produce the popular tool that serves a bigger client portfolio, and also lower the price. 

When the market of the tools are mature, it is then again the workers’ craft and art to incorporate a selection of tools into her toolkit. It is silly to purchase all the tools, which disrupts the order of her warehouse and clarity of thinking. She only really needs one best tool for each problem, or none if that function is shared by another tool. And she only needs the tools that solves the problems that she would like to solve. She does not need an axe if her work does not involve breaking matters into irregularly smaller parts. She does not need an axe if all her materials are already small or requires mannual work of great control. But she would need an axe if she otherwise have a special liking for collecting materials bigger than her purpose, or if she is an unapologetic brutalist. 

That kind of work is so different from mine. My hands have been trained to be incapable of survival in any age other than a modern and digital one. I feel silly to carry around a pair of hands that are almost accessories. My only possible repentance, I guess, is to shake more hands, and go extra miles to make those handshakes more pleasant. 