---
layout: post
title: The art of Norm-breaking
subtitle: 
tags: [prose]
---
Adaptation is knowing the norms of your environment. You get to know the set of manners that can get you through everywhere without standing out too much and creating a scene. The norms are not always about moral concerns. A lot of norms are conventions or contingencies. But some of them are certainly with moral considerations. 

By knowing the norms, you also get to know the hierarchy of norms. Some norms are very important to the locals but others less so. You gradually get a bit play room where you can deviate from some of the norms without causing a great scene, with the reward of being a bit more comfortable. Gradually you can know what those norms are. The freedom to break a subset of norms is not only satisfying but triggers creativity. 

One would not want to follow all the norms nor break all of them. It’s stupid. Everyone wants to, within legal limits, be who they are. But being totally authentic is gonna deplete all one’s energy. The unimportant aspects do not deserve norm-breaking. Some norms are entrenched in the society but are wrong. These are the norms that one shall consider to break even though they are effort-taking. How much effort does one have? Not a lot. It’s already a feat for one to use all their life to break one or two norms. One gotta use that opportunity sparsingly. 

Creating a scene is not necessarily wrong, but inconvenient. Attention is a difficult thing. It distracts you. One needs to then make extra effort for concentration, if they attract attention. On the contrary, without attention, one can focus at ease. Of course, it is always possible to train oneself to disregard all the attentions, but that would create a distance for themselves from the society. Too much of this sort of distance is dangerous. It might make one overly egotistic or diffident. 

The Romantist idea of one man on the mountain, one against many, or the one that goes against the flow is not only isolating but fruitless. One needs not only the ability to think independently, but also the ability to listen to others with judgement. One needs to associate themselves with others and live in the environment, not above it. Mostly, the idea of the self being the only right one for everything against a silly crowd is due to a lack of knowledge. German has a nice word for this, “rechthaberisch”.