---
layout: post
title: The Problem with Psychology
subtitle: 
tags: [prose]
---
A lot of disciplines are a vulgarisation of philosophy, but psychology especially so. Psychology, a field studying human beings’ inner world with data and theory, is similar to other scientific fields in that it reduces reality to models. Science cannot function without reduction. Science works with drawing general patterns with particular phenomena. In doing so science needs to look at what is similar among different entities, focalise on them and disregard the rest. 

But what specifically makes psychology dangerous with this scientific method is that everybody craves for the knowledge of inner worlds, and would devour any theories that seems partially reasonable. Science cares about statistics, which is what makes psychology dangerous: it only cares about the middle number. It is not what ought to be, but what is for a big number of people. I do not mean we should not know what is. But a lot of people misconceive psychology as what ought to be. Statistics by definition throws away unusual numbers and lable them as “outliers”. In statistics, there is no good model to see what is good about it. There is only the model representing a chaotic mass that says human beings are, in its nature, sad, lazy, not worth saving. It throws away any good number because it is not representative. 

This method is not a defect if it describes something like economics. We want to know why people make bad decisions. But we don’t expect economic models to simulate how people in everyday life behave. Economics only declare that it trys to model the economic aspects, and do not hesitate to recognize its failure when the future does not go as predicted, which is almost always the case. Psychology ambitiously announce its truth for everthing inside. And there is no clear data in the future to prove it wrong. Because if psychologists decide not to collect the future data, the data wouldn’t be seen. 

Thus there is a very clear, definitive, unwavering set of psychology language to describe everything in modern life. If you do such and such, you are such and such. If they say such and such, they show symptoms of such and such. That is the TRUTH! People happily announce. When people use the psychological language seeped to the public from academia, they are not warned that every theory only comes from models that reduce reality to a ridiculously simple structure. It not only can be wrong but almost definitely wrong. It is the same as physics. People would expect physical theories to be the absolute truth, but the fact that they deem them to be absolute truth do not make their lives more difficult. But when they deem psychology as the absolute truth, they can really have a hard time. Psychological theories have the power to sentence people, put every behavior on trial. It does not provide humanist support or alliviate the pain. It pretends to understand, but only plays god with its declarative rhetoric. 

Literature is the foil of psychology. It does not tell people that it understands anything of people, but it provides that service in secrete. Literature is Socrates. It says it knows nothing. It tells stories. But the stories are nutritious. It does not solve anyone’s problem, but in the end, a lot of the problems are solved under its wing in the most humane way that is ever possible. 