---
layout: post
title: Rant
subtitle: 
tags: [prose]
---
Very annoyed today. Some days are like this. You know what you are annoyed about, but you know nobody to discuss. You know somebody with whom you could discuss, but you do not have accessibility to them. 

This is really a deep trust. You trust that the one you have in mind have sufficient ability to discuss some issue. You trust their Fähigkeit. 

At the same time, you are worried about them. You want to know more about their situation, their account of what happened today. Their general well-being. You hope they are well, in the most genuine sense. 

But it seems not possible. Not just seems. It is. Not scheint, but ist. Not 看起来, but 是这样. You are painful for that which you have no possible way to alleviate. You can think of a thousand words to tell them but then you cannot tell them anything. If I were, if I were. If I were able to meet them again, I still would've had nothing to tell them. I do not dare. 

I like the pronoun they, it makes someone you think about appear anonymous in a plural crowd. You are the only one who can point at the person in that crowd. But others, even your consciousness, has just the crowd. You start a secret against your own mind. 

Days like this are meant to power through. You keep working with a heavy head. It dictates you to indulge in grumpiness. It tyrannises. It gives you no freedom for your preferred temperament. 

Go ahead, go ahead. Time never stops for good or bad. You have this interesting sensation on your back as if, as if something is going to give you eternal happiness by amnesia. Would you choose that? I would probably not. I would choose to remember whatever is here making my life harder. I would choose to remember them whose lingering presence in your brain is almost too hard to bear. But I bear it. I bear it on my path. I bear it until I do not bear anything anymore. 

Thus is what it is. Thus is how it goes. 