---
layout: post
title: Apology
subtitle: 
tags: [letter]
---
If you still check my website, which I hope you do not, because that would’ve been pretty hurtful to you, but if you still do, I want to apologize for having to leave without saying goodbye properly.

Though I regret it very much from time to time, I cannot think of a second option. I want you to be healthy, peaceful, and satisfied with your life, as before we met. 

I gradually developed a strong connection with you, because of your character. I respect you and value your presence. I did not want it to grow more than that, because I knew friendship lasts way longer than something else. I am not good at handling romance, and I know as a fact I do not want you to be hurt by my awkwardness in that domain. 

I weighed over all the options that could’ve saved our relationship, but none would’ve worked sustainably. I was on the verge of wanting you more than a friend, and you probably had some similar, although also different, impulse. 

I still decided to address to you, because I want to let you know, the reason I wanted this is not because I was indifferent to your wellbeing, or that you had any fault. The only reason was I have to make sure that you do not get hurt by any passion that is out of your control. I know how passion works from my encounters with people who are not able to domesticate it. I know it is painful to see the trigger from time to time without resolution. 

I did not explain that day because I knew it would not have helped, instead would’ve made the situation harder for both. If you do check my website again, then I believe you are fit enough to be reminded of me, and you deserve my apology. You are a kind spirit, and your kindness is remembered by me. 

Yours,

Tian