---
layout: post
title: Suffering
subtitle: 
tags: [prose]
---
I did not expect myself to ponder on this topic, because I kinda forbade myself to, I mean, my own suffering. I feel petty for looking at myself. But some circumstance rises, which force me to realise human suffering is so pointlessly painful. 

Many reasons can make one miserable. The social climate one lives in, the decisions made against one’s will, and one of the worst, family members misbehave. The last one is arguably the most traumatising. Someone once said, one’s wellbeing is probably more affected by one’s closest family members than by a president. That is debatable, but there is some wisdom in it. 

Worst case is, that family member has an excuse, or an intelligible reason. They are failure due to themselves once being mishandled. You blame them for making your life miserable, but your sympathy forces you to feel bad about them. They become a Janus figure, being a victim and perpetrator at the same time. You then question yourself, who is responsible now?

No one, apparently. There is a chain of victims. For me, being mishandled to a point that it is still unbearable pushes me to look away from it in order to function at all. But then, I get phone calls from other family members for help, who are not able to go away to a foreign country. Their pain gives me much more pain than when I was mistreated. My brain starts to bite my own rationality, which I’ve tried so hard to build as defense. At the same time, I blame these family members for not protecting me when I was defenseless. But more so, I feel vicarious pain for them being too old to defend themselves. At the end, I am in more pain when then do not allow me to solve the problem in a legal way. 

Legal problems are not moral ones, and cannot be dissolved with moral solutions. But in my case, the oldest generation in my family are from a whole different culture, a world where modernity was non-existent. They do not understand abuse happened in family is still governed by law. For them, jurisdiction vanishes under the family roof, and can only be solved either with folk wisdom or chronic tolerance. That is actually what binds the whole society together. 

Large portion of people in my generation were brought up with traumatic experience, too severe that we are often not able to relate to trauma of our peers in other countries. Our parents’ generation were born in the cultural revolution, and their parents were born into the most disastrous time in the country’s history. As one can easily imagine, people of these two generations are mostly traumatised, and still so. They then give birth to us, who were born in a much better society in terms of material condition, but the two elder generations in our families are still mostly undiagnosed mental patients, if they are lucky to survive at all. 

Most of the time, they do not consider themselves as ill. Their experience taught them a perverse standard of what is normal and abnormal, and thus they brought us up with that abnormality. It is human tendency to copy one’s survival mechanism over and over again, and for my grandparents’ generation, their wisdom is to use every resource to survive. For my parents’, they were brought up by people who are content with being alive; but they themselves ride on the economic miracle unprecedented in human history, when rules and laws were oftentime disregarded. This combination could easily drive people into a personality disorder of inflated sense of ego, and an enshrinement of resourcefulness without rules. 

Thus we grew. We grew with them. We neither starved nor achieved unimaginable personal success or failure. We are the confused generaion. We did not understand why we were mishandled even when there was no point of creating chaos. We did not understand those who gave us pain. Our pain was brought to us not by material scarcity, but by mentally ill families. We were mistreated because of their trauma. We never understand why they need to create trouble when we could’ve lived happily, and when our material resource is already enough. We never understand their demand of competitivenss even when we could’ve realised our potential much better without the pointless competition. We never understand their emotional instability, so instable that we live in fear without a second of relief. We are always ready to be shouted at, cursed with the dirtiest language, physically abused, or threatened with even knives and cleavers, all for the pettiest thing ever. Pointless suffer. We could’ve lived happily, but why do they not want us to? 

The 40-50s generation were fostered by their fear, the 60-70s their false understanding of individual potential, and the 90s, us, we were influenced by both fears and inflated dreams from these generations in our family. The 70s were at their prime during the capitalist reform. It was an age of craziness. An economy of a billion population starts its growth from zero, whose development is destined to be enormous and unsustainable. But that miracle is entrenched in the brain of the 70s-borns. They were brought up with unguided, often contradictory ideologies, success stories of all kinds without pattern, and an age when even the most untalented were able to accumulate the amount of material wealth unimaginable to the rest of the world. They belong to the generation of frenzy, and they sure are themselves. Among the parents of my peers, many are chronically schizophrenic. Their age encourages craziness, and when the society stables, they have been too old to change.

I write this down today, because I was reminded by all of this by some unfortunate news back from the family. I realised I never trully recovered from the abuse, and looking away is my only imaginable treatment. How many people from my generation suffer from this unspeakable trauma? I can easily lose count. It is not yet the time to solve this problem, according to the n-year plans. I know many Chinese, when they hang out with the Europeans, they cannot relate to their trauma. Our trauma is so overwhelmingly unbearable, that the european ones sound to us almost like bragging. Sometimes when we hear one from them, I really wish I had that one instead of mine. That is my humble dream. 