---
layout: post
title: Am I a Misogynist?
subtitle: 
tags: [prose]
---
I have been seriously thinking about this question recently. The motivation is that I always prefer to behave away from the traits that are associated with women. But after some thought, I think what I do is not misogyny, and I am not misogynist at all, though my behavior has a surface resemblance to it. 

The reason I do not behave in a certain way is not because it is associated with women, but it happen to be what women have been conditioned to do. For example, I do not feel comfortable with long hair. That is just a personal preference. An unbiased society would have roughly half population of both men and women preferring short hair, but in our society, the predominant percentage of women prefer long hair, which means this preference is socially constructed. For men as well. But short hair has a lot of social advantage. It is not only easier to maintain, but also physically much lighter to carry around. That facilitates mobility. Mobility facilitates socialisation. Socialisation facilitates the kind of success that men boast to have achieved. Same logic with make-up, dressing style, etc. I certainly do not "hate" people with nice make-up and dressing style. (I enjoy them very much, and even used to be a reporter for that!) But I do not personally have a liking to practice them, because they demand maintenance, simple as that. 

Additionally, I also do not like to have elegant posture, which is also associated with women. This is also not fair. To be clear, I do not behave in any way that creates eyesore, but the requirement for women to maintain a elegant posture for a prolonged period of time is just inhumane. Any prolonged, stiff posture is unhealthy, even the elegant and scientific ones. Bodies are supposed to maintain a healthy range of free movement. I do not think I am imitating men for this one, but men are spoiled to be more comfortable in general. 

Another question to be asked is, do I *hate* myself for being a woman? No, not at all! I am as womanly as any other woman, and rightly so. I am not in any way less of a woman as some woman who wears crop top and has silky long hair. We are both women. What is wrong is the attributes forced onto women without consensus. I am physically and mentally attracted to men, as any other straight woman does, and not a bit less just because I have short hair and wear unisex pants. What I wear and how long I keep my hair certainly do not decide my sexual identity and inclination. 

I think I will have a rather clear mind next time I get challenged by myself. I have never been called out by anyone except for myself for misogyny, but I am often put by others into the boyish lesbian prototype. That I usually dismiss with some good laughter, but then I’d ask myself, if I am not lesbian, then why is it that I do not behave like a straight woman?

Now I can be certain, boys do not own the traits that I have. (Or the typical boyish lesbians!) We are equally accessible to them. We can all choose to have long/short hair, assertive/gentle temperament, practical/pensive manner, and they do not mean we are less of a woman, or a man. They do not decide our sexual preference, either. The only problem is probably I would have a rather hard time for dating, because men prefer a woman within the prototype, but then, it is another topic. 