---
layout: post
title: On One-Child Policy
subtitle: 
tags: [comment]
---
It was only after coming to Switzerland did I know this policy is among the most well-know ones in modern China. The new republic started far-leftist, and made many policies unheard of in human history. Some ended up with unbelievable disasters, some with good results that alleviated poverty. So I was surprised this one is particularly well-known. Even though it is indeed one of the striking ones that’s largely shifted the course of the country’s history, it is neither the only one nor the most catastrophic one. (What a sad statement.) But I guess many other decisions are absurd enough that they do not create fear to people in other countries. This one is both distopian and somehow reasonable, considering the imminent problem at that moment, that people are scared that this will, one day, happen in their countries. 

I am not able to give a simple for or against opinion on this decision. What I can say is some of my observations, as a girl born during the time that policy was effective. But in any case, my perspective is only emic (from an insider), with strong limitations on my own knowledge and experience. 

The most noticeable consequence of mine is that Chinese families, at least many of the urban ones, were forced to go from predominantly weighing boys against girls to a better balance towards both girls and boys. As someone born in a major city, during the course of my childhood, I was not aware that the Chinese families used to prefer boys to a good extent. But of course, I do not mean bias against women did not exist in society anymore, but from the perspective of a family life, most of the friends I knew, boys or girls, were spoiled and mockingly called little emperers and princesses. Consequently, I received an education that was, if not better, as good as the boys. In my maternal family, my mom was already the single daughter due to my grandma’s late pregnancy, and then the fact that my mom by the law could not bear more children forced me to be the only kid in generations. The little princess syndrome is still with me, both positively and negatively. On the negative side, one thing I noticed among me and my friends is that we are significantly more self-centered than other generations who have siblings, and we have to train ourselves deliberately to get rid of that excessive ego. We still had to go through strenuous academic training, but that also came with great support from our family members. It is not unheard of that one member of the family quit their job to be full-time “study company” for their only kid in the house, and other family members work very hard to support that kid’s academic success. Thus, even though the concept “feminism” only got popular later in the Chinese society, it had been effectively feminist in part of the country due to policies like the one-child mandate. Many earlier movements also advocates extreme feminism, but the one-child policy spreads feminism very effectively as an unintended consequence.

I have heard of the many disastrous events like force abortion and manslaughter of little girls. These events could not be reported by media, so my sources were mostly from word of mouths. Especially in rural areas where the concept of having sons is not only about them being better at taking care of the family, but they are almost symbolic of social status, and the only hope to pass on the family name. Families without sons are considered eliminated from the history. In such cases, there could be absurdly inhuman actions just to give birth to sons. 

I almost have taken feminism for granted for all my life, and then realised mine is a rare case both worldwide and in the history of the nation, and comes with devastating expense both on the macro and micro level. The country is now trying to find solutions to taking care of the old, because many urban kids of our generaion achieves something somewhere else in the world, and cannot take care of the elderly the same way as the generations before us. Lonliness of the old is a much discussed topic, and there emerges many new forms of communities for them to accompany each other when the kids are away. There are certainly many more. A policy like this is bound to create a chain of effects, many left invisible or absurd, but actually are undiagnosed consequences of a grand-scale policy. 