---
layout: post
title: Why Do We Make Mistakes?
subtitle: 
tags: [prose]
---
Sometimes people make mistakes because they do not have enough experience, but other times exactly because they have too much experience. The latter comes from our inherent desire to learn from the past. We desperately want to become a “better” person, or simply use our time better, and not to repeat a similar mistake. This makes one overly defensive. The motivation is our inevitable death. We want to counter our physical decline and final death by forming a growth narrative. This creates this interesting concept of Buildung, which theoretically forms the best version of oneself on their deathbed. 

We do not necessarily become a better person, but we do change, or grow, if you will. The growth is not necessarily to optimise the mechanics. But growth means one’s past is equipped as toolkits for analogical purpose in the future. The German speakers like to use the word Bewusstheit, the consciousness of action. Bewusstheit means using the toolkit and upgrading it continuously. The problem with the toolkit is that we overestimate our ability to understand a situation and make a good evaluation on situation’s ability to generalise. This is worse when the person is both subjectively and objectively considered smart. The whole story of Pride and Prejudice is about how smart people make bad judgements. But unlike the story, most of us do not want to recognise our misjudgement, or do not know we have misjudged. 

All form of judgement is based on our experience, or lack thereof. Learning is also an experience that has analogical value. Kids make odd judgement because they do not have any reference. A drunk person does so because of reduced memory. But generally, we all aim to make better judgement through time. But the question is, how much should we use analogy and how much should we acknowledge our ignorance of a new situation and just rely on the world not hurting us? 

I often think about this, because I’ve seen people in my family developing phobia and starting to make worse and worse judgements because they want self-growth after a bad experience. I understand that intention. They are not irrational. It is exact that they want to be rational that makes the situation worse and worse. They start to hypothesise less and less possible causalities. Of course this is now labeled as a medical condition, and the person in question is often sent directly to an institution with physical treatment. But then the real reason behind that is still left unadressed. It is surly effective to treat the result, but it does not help long-term if the reason is left unsearched. 

But generally, I believe more experience will make one’s judgement less harmful. More experience means one has more realisation of their bad judgement due to overly analogising, and gradually learns to at times forgo the holy Bewusstheit. Some experience leaves one nothing to learn from. It is just a contingency, which is, fairly speaking, absolutely not rare in anyone’s life. 
