---
layout: post
title: Independence and Isolation
subtitle: Social comparison between the Chinese and the Swiss
tags: [prose]
---
Society means a group of people, for some reason, willingly or unwillingly, live together and speak the same language. They rely on each other in some way, commercially or emotionally, and thus form a coherent unit. 

For the Chinese, the society is a fully connected graph, whereas for the Swiss a partial one. This means the Chinese consider relations to be omnipresent: every two persons have the possibility to try out forming a connection. The connection does not need to be defined, and its length and strength do not need to be guaranteed. A close Chinese friend of mine once told me that he considers it the norm for all his relationships to be temporary, despite that he has a couple of very strong and long-lasting relationships, including a romantic one. But he takes it as a given that relations are fluid and by default finite. For him, a new day of a relationship is not to be taken for granted, but earned and blessed. 

For the Swiss, the society connects strongly within households, then with friends. But these clusters do not really form “unreasonable” connections among one another. By unreasonable, I mean those connections that are out of a whim, e.g., a contingent and pleasant conversation. Thus, it is important for one to form a family in Switzerland. (Everybody needs to socialise just as one needs to eat!) Without a family, it is very easy to slip into isolation. 

Independence is another contributor to isolation. The Chinese take it as a given that everybody can only do a couple of errands, and the rest is done either out of the goodwill of their social circle, or by commercial means. This binds the society together in a wholesome manner. For a typical Chinese person, they never hesitate to ask for a favor, because that is an invitation for bond-building. The other party also usually does not hesitate to offer the favor. The eco-system functions based on small favor exchange. Every favor is a chance to deepen the connection in a meaningful way. Whereas for a typical Swiss, asking for favor is not the norm. Independence is encouraged, honored, and seen as self-growth. When one needs help, there are also social institutions that offer professional help, without the need to “bother” a social connection. There is no doubt that a Swiss person is (theoretically and physical-capability-wise) able to live a long life without any personal connection, but it is not possible for a person in the Chinese society to do so. 

For me, I find both with their pros and cons. I was nourished by the Chinese society with its warmth and support, but also somewhat babied by it. I came to Switzerland at 29, with the assumption that I was independent enough to survive an individualistic society, but surprisingly, the independence that is demanded by Switzerland was still very difficult for me to keep up with. I spent quite some time developing the necessary skill set, both physically and mentally, to live a Swiss life. But after I have learned all the skills and rules, I realised this “self-growth” still does not lead to a fully immersed life; on the contrary, it leads to doing everything on one’s own, a further atomisation in an atomised society. 

I can imagine myself looking back 10 years later at myself now. I will probably appreciate the amount of time I spent philosophising everything in Switzerland. But looking back, the worthiest time I have had was in Yunnan, with brilliant weather, decent spice, books, billiards, kindness, tolerance, and camaraderie. Imperfect but perfect enough. The social connection is strong but non-intrusive. That is a society I find the worthiest. 
